okay right now let's go ahead and see
how can we install new Maury DB database
first we need to go to the symbol pan
territorial in here am ready bead of
ORAC come press on the download button
here click on it should take you to the
word day to go ahead as you can see that
ray DB is free and open source software
and here at the premium sponsors for the
Maria DB really big
sponsored cooking Alibaba Tencent
Microsoft go ahead and click the alert
that's really encouraging
now the available versions right now is
ten point two and ten point three ten
point eight still Amida this table
virgin but I'm going to go for the
latest version 10 point straight
go ahead and click the green button now
choose the operating system that will be
using kind of choose as you can see from
here Windows or Linux I'm going to use
it on the windows 64-bit go ahead and
click on it or choose your version as
you can see now it should be now willing
as you can see it's being the wooded I
have it already downloaded so I'm going
to double click on the double load it's
fine as you can see in here that's from
here is the installation window I'm
going to press Next accept terms and
here is the components that will be
installed with the Punda l-- in here and
this one here it's really interesting
this is the graphical user interface it
will be using heidi SQL so go ahead and
press next the root user control this is
as the administrator user or the super
user so go ahead and specify a password
for it who will be using the root to do
a lot of things okay this option in here
enable access from remote machines for
root users if you'd like to access your
database from remote machines for the
root user it's okay just leave it right
now we're not going to use it the
service name i'm going
we named it from ready B and the P TCP
port you maybe have a problem if you
have the same port if you have the MySQL
installed because you are using the same
port so if you have this problem you
need to change one of the ports the
MySQL port or the Maria DB for it right
now I'm going to leave it as a default
I'm going to press next now I'm going to
enable this right now go ahead and
install yes go ahead and install it it
should be straightforward
I'm sassed Alejo ok it's definitely very
fast if we go to the store it as you can
see now here it is recently added I have
the Heidi SQL I can go ahead and open it
as I told you this is a graphical user
interface that will be using hearing
aids I can go ahead and add a new
decision from here I can go ahead and to
the network type I can connect to any
database MySQL and MySQL here I can
choose to connect to a DB o my SQL or
you can connect to SQL Server the
Microsoft of course SQL Server all the
Postgres sequel right now I'm going to
choose MySQL TCP / IP and when you see
this I beam here this means a localhost
this local machine this is the local one
again here is the root go ahead and give
it the password this is the pour it and
if there is a database that we would
like to connect I don't think I'll leave
this right now I'm gonna click on this
in here and double click and we are
connected but the condition is not
renamed we can go ahead and rename it
it's that important right now but as you
can see here is the Heidi SQL that we
are going to use to I will do everything
to is you Maria DB database and it's
free and in the bundle of the Maria
I can use it for example to create a new
database for example I'm going to call
this maybe HR database the cool agent
going to discuss this later on or just
leave it as default for now ok I'm going
to choose ok and as you can see here the
code is generated for us create database
HR we didn't have to write any code
anything that we will be doing in the
interface in here will be translated
into code we don't have to do this it's
doing it for us as you can see we have a
new database in here called H car I can
come in here of course and create a new
table maybe name this table employees
and I can come in here and tell it that
this table will contain the formation
about each and plea for example it's
just as a test I can start I think the
columns may be the employee number the
digital ID would be an end we're going
to go through all of this so don't worry
with just navigating through the
interface so I can come in here and kill
it the employee name I can make this
text so go down to variable tractor and
I'm going to explain all of these data
types don't worry but I had saved this
in here here it is go ahead and save it
as you can see it's translated into a
SQL code without us doing anything
create table all of what we are doing as
you can see in here is translated into
code which is really interesting now we
have a table that we've created in here
it's called employees I can go ahead and
create another one I can grab it I can
edit it can make it empty really very
powerful small and free interface that
we can use so next we're going to see
how to create or install rady be only
cloud see you in the next lecture
welcome back in this lecture you will be
creating your first ready B database
let's go ahead and do it so here I have
Heidi SQL I'm going to create a new
surgeon in here from
you session in route fuller we're gonna
name it
for example localhost you can go ahead
and name it whatever you want here I
have the IP address this IP address is
the locale for this machine or any other
machine actually this is the local IP
address you can replace it with the word
local host or the actual IP if you have
real IV you can just type it in here and
the user root this is as we agreed
before this is the administrator or the
super user for the database I'm gonna
type the password that I said earlier
when we were installing mariadb and I'm
going to click on yes okay here it is
now it's open and connected without any
problem to create a database simply come
in here right click and choose create
new database as easy as this so the name
of the database go ahead and time it for
example maybe this is in pleased
database going to store information
about the employees the collegian
actually is a set of rules for storing
and ordering the data in the columns and
the database don't worry about that
right now we're not going to change it
so as you can see here is the code for
creating database great database in
please it's saving the time for our
sound doing it using the Dewey in here
which is very fast what if I wanted to
use as you can see here is little base
created what if I wanted to use the code
to create it I can simply come in here
and start typing in the query in here I
would like to create a new database so
I'm going to do with using the SQL code
so create database just maybe test or
any name that you'd go ahead and run
this from this icon here and it's
executed as you can see in here create
databases expected without warning let's
just go and refresh and here it is you
see it's very easy to create it using
the
Heidi's field interface oh using the SQL
code in here and the same for the delete
or the drop if I would like to delete or
drop my database I can just come in here
and choose drug warning you lose all the
objects in the database in please okay
there's no objects actually if I would
like to do it using the code I can
simply grab database tests and run now
I'm deleting the test of the please
because already deleted go ahead and
execute SQL here it is just a little
fresh and it's created really it's nice
feature that we have in here to see
whatever you doing it's translated into
SQL code so you can revise whatever
you're doing in here
you see Cho databases show the databases
drop database does show the devices drop
with a base name please every sink every
single step you're doing it's translated
into SQL code which is really really
very powerful that's it now aunty you in
the next lecture
welcome back in this lecture we're going
to see how to create and manage users in
Moorea DB it's really important to know
how to create and manage users who's in
the real world and scenario in a
production we be creating a lot of users
maybe users to only select date of human
database maybe another users to take
backups maybe as a user to create
objects maybe
force users to add and update you data
in your database so it's really
important to know how to create and
manage users and actually it's pretty
easy to do with using the heidi is
secure so first i'm going to connect it
to my database here it is so i'm going
to create a new database clicking here
create new database and i'm gonna name
it may be uh louisa killed right now to
create users i'm going to create another
user under than the root user and I'm
gonna give it specific permissions on
this database so from the
told in here we
go to user manager who user manager we
can start adding users from here and
give them permissions so here is the
username I'm going to add maybe name it
HR okay and the password go and choose
anything this flight from here allow
access to as you can see here global
privileges this here all of this our SQL
statements excuse like Choa alter create
all of this statements we're going to
see most of them almost most of them and
the upcoming lecture so don't worry so
from here I can give this users HR user
in here maybe he can excuse maybe he can
select Osho databases or Larter or
create or create a view hold it as you
can see doesn't go and give him but this
permissions here is given globally as
you can see to all the databases not
specific database on that specific
tables so let's go ahead and see what
does this mean now how it's different so
I'm going to give him only execute and
select so I'm going to say so he cannot
create items okay he can create tables
for example so I save it and here it is
it's created in here create user rich or
at localhost identified bar this is a
password that I entered and if I come in
here and try to patent you right now I'm
connecting using the root which is the
administrator so I can come in here of
course and create a new table I know
that we didn't discuss table eight but
we're going to discuss there is a whole
section of have tables because you're
really important but cope with me and
create this table so I'm gonna name this
table maybe you please please
this table should contain the names of
so please just add one column from
change anything just save it and it
should be created successful here it is
it's created without any problem please
name it it's not going to be used this
is just as test to see if I have a civic
or enough was sufficient permission or
privileges
to create tables so right now I'm going
to connect using another user so from
the file session manager I'm going to
create another one so great you one HR
collection I'm gonna name it this name
and I'm gonna use the HR user as I
created and I create a password 1 2 3
it's very easy so go ahead and convict
it here it is yes change it I don't like
to disconnect this in here so right now
I'm only connecting using the HR so
let's go ahead he not only have access
to the employees a new database and
table we can see it without any problem
but can he create the table let's go
ahead and try it
so from new we're going to do the same
create table I'm gonna give it a name
any name just just add a column and save
it as you can see sequel error create :
deny it to this user because he doesn't
have enough permissions today this task
she's a difference what if I wanted to
lead the employees names the table that
I created I can come in here and press
Grob using can be dropped look it will
not be dropped again because he doesn't
have sufficient permission to do this a
specific task he can view but he cannot
create or delete so let's go ahead and
give him enough permissions to do
positive so I'm going to connect using
the localhost route so now I'm an
administrator now and I'm going to the
email manager I'm gonna go through the
HR maybe if I give him from here Grouper
privileges in here so that he can create
would lead it will be given to all the
databases what if I wanted to give him
specifically on this database in please
imagine that I have maybe 10 or 20
databases and I would like only this
user to access only the M key
database so I can close this in here and
you see this here at object I can go
ahead and add object I'm going to add
people please
and now the employee is here and I can
start giving him specific permissions on
this specific database so right now I'm
going to use create maybe delete as well
on drop believe this is a delete
statement for record drop is for
dropping objects like the tables views
are my databases so go ahead and save it
that's it going to disconnect going to
fish just to make sure that everything
is working properly so right now I'm
going to create a new table name it may
be just again let's see if it will work
this time I'm adding a column and let's
go ahead and press safe and it's working
here it is you see now I'm using the
same HR connection
it's working without any problem if I
try to delete or drop this table again
it's dropped without any problem because
now the HR user has sufficient
permissions to do this tasks so I hope
you saved this lecture and see you in
the next welcome back in this lecture
we're going to discuss database tables
what is a database table a relational
database consists of many components as
we're going to see but the most
important one is the table it's the
heart of the relational databases the
database table is where all the data in
the database is stored
if there is no tables there is no reason
for relation of the trays to exist so
take a look at this example in here this
is a simple table we have in here we
have the blurry name this is a column
here is the title or the name or the
attribute called Blair name and here is
data itself each data is a row so here
we have a column the column Blair name
and row the first was ronaldo then we
have missus and salah anymore then the
second column is the country the third
is t-shirt number the force is born on
and the date so this is a very simple
example of a table so to design such
structures in a database we're going to
see how to do this in this lecture we're
going to do this using z SQL script and
using the idea secure okay this is here
this tab the query is where i'm going to
type all my sphere script so make sure
that you're using the human resources
database and you are on the query tab
and in here i'm going to specify the
testicle code i'm going to write it to
do things like create table add column
to a table or draw a table or selecting
some data from a table all out where is
going to be inside of this query tab in
here okay so by default you might find
it it's smaller than i have to increase
the font you can go ahead to tools
preferences and secure and you can go
ahead and increase it as you want as
increasing if it's increasing as you can
see so right now i'm using 18 i'm i can
go ahead and play with the colors the
foreground and so go ahead and switch
and serve so right now i'm going to
create a new table using the SQL script
this table will consist of if there's an
ID a person named are sitting under
country very symbol so to create
anything in the SQL already be we're
going to use the create command so
create and then we need to specify what
are you creating we're going to create a
table then we're going to need to give
it a name so the table is going to be
named maybe person's okay that's not it
we need to continue so we're going to
open and close the parentheses like this
then we're going to specify the columns
inside of this table so i'm going first
to add the person ID that's the first
column the first
name and maybe the city or maybe the
country can go ahead and add anyone or
any else or any other columns that you
would like to yeah so we are not done
yet
actually because each column of these
columns I need to specify the data type
the type of the date that is going to be
stored in each column so the person ID
probably it's going to be a number so to
use a number there is plenty of options
in the Morea DB but I'm going to you the
very popular one which is the end or the
intern and for the person name I can go
ahead and use character there's other
ways to store text inside of the columns
in the marais DB but I'm going to use
for now my personal favorite which is
the variable character and B text all
the variable character and me we need to
specify the lid so I'm going to use 100
between two phrases like this and I'm
going to explain the differences between
the characters variable character and
the other data types as we're going so
I'm going to choose either the type for
this city or which potato it is suitable
for the city maybe it's also variable
character is going to store some text
and also the country is going to be
variable character and don't forget to
suppress your colons with come like this
this is eco okay right now we're ready
to run this code or execute it so I'm
going to click on this kit blue icon in
here execute SQL so I'm going to execute
it and I'm going through fresh mine
database process five simply when i
refresh it I will have a new table
called person if I right-click and
choose edit here I have my columns and
here is it aside that is specified with
the lenses okay so what if I wanted to
edit something in this column this is
probably a scenario you create table and
you edit it not the data itself we're
going to
go to the data and see how can we add
some data to this table but what if I
wanted to edit the structure we can
simply use for example I'm going to
Hannah Cole I would like to add a new
column how can I do this okay stay
focused so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to till it outer table reasons so
again like create we're going to use
alter to edit a sink what object are you
going to alter it's a table and its name
is reasons okay so what are you going to
alter in this table it's asking me I'm
going to add a column C it's very
straightforward year of first and it's
going to be of the table date this is e
type used store date okay so again with
the command I'm altering a table called
persons I'm adding a column cool
irreversible type date derby state
forward I guess you're going to get
familiar with it so right now if I
execute it this is going to execute the
create table again and that's not what I
want what I want is to exceed only this
so I'm going to select it and I'm going
to this icon in here and I'm going to
run selection okay but selection going
to and only this and if i refresh my
table right now at it again we don't
have anything actually let's refresh our
database let's try to edit it again okay
now it's at year first and design his
date as you can see okay let's go ahead
and try to add something different what
if I wanted to remove the column maybe I
don't need the country I'm doing the
city how could I do this simply again
you can come in here and kill it alter
table persons and we use the keyword
drop for deleting a Colo job drop
which is going to delete column and give
it the name of the column what do you
think leave the city or the country I'm
going for the country ready for now okay
let's go ahead and execute this again
let's refresh the database
what will the column again for the table
there is no column country gets deleted
or dropped very interesting so let me
try to do something else what if I
wanted to change the data type of one of
these columns in here maybe change the
year of birth to an aunt I don't want to
store the whole date only the year so
how can I do this again simply we're
going to tell it alter table persons and
we're going to kill it
modify we're going to modify a column
this column is going to be called for
example the year of first and I'm gonna
change it to an end say what I did I
began alter table persons now he knows
all the Marie diamond house she knows
actually if I can say this it's real so
what if I'm going to modify a column
your burst to time nth let's run this
cigar hat run selection it's fresh or
database check your table and here did
the rivers have changed to an end I hope
that's an easy if you think this is easy
that's really good you're going to get
familiar with the SQL script with a
secure current through right now this is
the hard way to do it we can do it in a
very easy way using this D line here but
first let me delete this table so to
delete the table I can simply come in
here and drop table persons okay
that's election and we're done if i
refresh this right now there is no
tables inside of my Human Resources
database see very straightforward so
what I'm going to do now is going to
create the same table person by the
person name city and country using the
heidi SQL so I'm going to choose
right-click create new table and I'm
going to give it a name persons can go
ahead and add you command if you'd like
to leave a comment for this table and in
the couple are in section in here I'm
going to start to add columns so the
first one is going to be person ID it's
going to be and here is actually very
nice latest I can see that this is all
the numeric numbers tiny and small and
medium hands and big and big and real is
storing the floating-point numbers you
can find the text really cool options to
use II Heidi SQL so I'm going to leave
it at the anything here I'm going to add
a new column this will be person name
and it's going to be a variable
character and I can go ahead and set it
to 50 or 150 or anything actually so I
have an the city also a variable
character just leave it under 50 and the
country again also variable character
can go ahead and change it if I want
force maybe which will be only 100 and
so then we're going to press safe and
here it is we created our table you see
the as you can see in here everything
that I'm doing is being transformed it
into a circular script so here's what I
did
create table person ID null there's no
ID we're going to check it's having some
extra SQL script but we're going to get
through this so you don't worry about
this if I am in my database right now I
have this new table created using the
idea cycle in a very fast way
so I hope that this was fun and see you
in the next lecture ok let's learn more
about datatypes by creating more columns
to the person's table that we've created
in the last lecture so I'm going to the
person's and I'm going to choose edit
and in here this is the column that
we've created the person ID the person
name the city the country if you don't
have them please go ahead and create
them it's going to be first one of time
and the person ID and the person name
city and country is going to be a five
variable characters so let's go ahead
and try to add more columns I'm going to
press add and I'm going to add for
example maybe the address I'll write
story address army address is going to
be actually behind the SDK L is doing a
great job when you hover over any
dissolve it's going to give you a brief
about each digit or as you can see in
here go ahead play with that read the
documentation about these data types but
what is the difference between the
variable character on the card there is
a magnificent difference between them
the character field is a fix-it lens and
the variable corrector from its name
it's if variable lens field what does
this mean this means that the storage
requirements are different the character
data type always takes the same amount
of his face regardless of what actually
you're going to store again what does
this mean sir if I made the address
character and the specified it to be 50
and they give only thin litters to the
address of this 50 it's going to store
the 50 not to 10 because it's fix-it
lens which is not good for the memory
and the performance if you go into your
this empty spaces oh this is pieces on
the other hand if you're choosing
variable character variable character is
dynamic it's going to store what
actually you used not the whole lens so
it's very good option to use the
variable character rather than the
character itself so I'm going to add
more columns
leave the correct
the characters and I'm going to choose
maybe the date of birth to you betta
data first and I'm going to choose a
date sirs-e type called dates go and
store the date and it's telling you the
format that it should be stored in I'm
going to choose it and I'm going to add
another column this column is going to
be maybe the salary found choose the
salary and the salary is going to be of
type decimal this will actually takes
two inputs in here at the lens and the
numbers after the point so I'm going to
choose for example ten two digits is
enough I guess and I'm going to add
that's enough for now I'm going to save
this you save this we can go ahead and
click Save and I'm going to choose
persons again and go to choose you have
a free person so you need to choose it
already go to the data tab and we can go
ahead and start having some record this
to this table in here that's not the
best way to add recorders to a table we
going to discuss update and insert
statements in the upcoming lectures but
right now we're going to you the hardy
SQL to add rows to this table so I'm
going to choose this between our in here
insert through enter table as you can
see it's changed to be here so I can now
I have items a person has been going to
be one the person name maybe we can add
Jessica the city maybe New York the
country you say I'm your dress go ahead
and save anything over leave it empty
isn't a problem
they do burst later we going to see how
not too late database leave feel this
all columns rows to be empty like this
we can apply some constraint make us
must supply or give some input to this
column in here okay I'm going to see
this later
the lady actually the hernia still doing
us a great job at generated to date
automatically for us and can come in
here and change
increases or decreases even time it from
the beginning but as you can see it
takes it in this may be it strange for
you at the first but it takes the year -
months - and the day ok year-month-day
[Music]
inspirated by dashes so I'm going to
choose maybe 1990 member that's ok yeah
I'm the salary I'm going to choose any
number in here if you remember we added
only two numbers of at the point so I
can come in here and add more that's
going to round it to two numbers only
right now nothing of this has been saved
as you can see from this red corner in
here go ahead and click post
and it's going to post the number and
here we lay out a problem and now it's
saved it answered it already this record
into the database I can come in here and
add more if I want as you can see in
here the number the date of birth the
address the country city um I think um
let's go ahead and try to add another
one maybe number two and maybe James the
city is we Berlin maybe the country
maybe Berlin is in Germany I don't any
address I'm go ahead and choose any date
as I told you I'm coming here to create
the year I'm going to leave the cellar
anywhere can go ahead and here and sort
it if you want
it's really something or in something
I'm going to discuss this in detail so
don't worry about this I can come in
here and choose it so as you can see now
I added two records I can sort it by the
name ascending or descending or the city
or the country or the address actually
just to address right now and did a
burst of course I can select it the
salary there is no salary
here so what is really happening in here
with his Hillary is that it traveled it
to the two numbers if you move that we
added a very long number after the point
but it only used two number and this is
the comma for these thousand it's not
the point here at the point so that's a
very easy way to create tables using the
high DSC QL and that would be it and see
you in the next welcome back in this
lecture we're going to discuss primary
case but first let's define what is a
primary key simply a primary key is
special relational database table column
or multiple columns so it can be sink
column or multiple columns that will
uniquely identify all the table records
the main features of the primary key is
that it's unique it cannot be duplicated
and it cannot contain no it cannot be
empty the primary key concept is
critical to an efficient relational
databases
if there is no primary Keys relation
with the basis is not going to work so
almost all of us deal with primary keys
in our daily life without us knowing
this so all the citizens for example no
matter what nationality you have you
must have some kind of a unique number
you must have the passport number all of
these numbers or a primary keys or they
are unique and cannot contain null you
cannot have an ID if no and your ID
cannot be duplicated with someone else
called license also or the same banking
counts employee IDs in a company so
there is a lot of examples for primary
keys so how can we create primary keys
in Moorea Debbie let's go ahead and find
out
okay I'm going to create a new table
called person the same table that we
were creating in the previous lectures
so if you have it already from previous
lectures go ahead and drop it or delete
it we're going to create table I'll call
it person's again and the person's table
is going to have two : the first column
is going to be person ID and lives in
this before type end and to mark this
column that this is the primary key
because this column is going to hold the
primary key or the identification number
of each person simply all we have to do
is to type primary key and that's it now
more EDB know that this table person's
ID has a colon code person ID which is
going to be the primary key for this
table so let's go ahead and add a little
one maybe person name of variable
character and maybe 150 and I'm gonna
leave it like this go ahead and execute
it if we refresh our database here
persons let's go ahead and return we can
see that now there is a new icon in here
we saw the person ID it's mark it as a
key in here okay let's go ahead and
check the data let's see what does this
will behave will make the behavior of
our table so I'm going to specify the
number in here maybe there somebody's
going to be one I'm going to choose many
my name but I'm that I'm going to click
on this icon post and now it's posted
I'm going to add a new one maybe number
two I'm gonna choose maybe Tonya I'm
going to click post I'm going to add
another one and this time I'm going to
give it the same number for this person
maybe I'm at this record in here so I'm
going to add one
give it a different name maybe Jack I'm
going to click anywhere in here as you
can see in here it's telling me that
there is a duplicate value floor number
one because this is a primary it's
notifying me that this is a primary key
in case that I forget or hit that I
didn't notice it so go ahead make this
three but I can duplicate the name
without the problem so I can make this
but again without a problem it will
accept it because the person name is not
the primary key and as we agreed that
the primary key must be unique and
cannot be null so if I try to make it
null in here and give it any name maybe
Emma go ahead place it anywhere as you
can see in here personal ID doesn't have
a default value I can make this 4 and I
can leave the name empty ok because the
name is a personal name is not e a
primary key on there is no I can strain
to tell it that you must enter this name
later we're going to see how to make it
or make a constrain to make it enter the
person name and it's not going to accept
any data if you didn't enter the person
name without making it a key okay so
this is one of the way is to create
primary key so I'm going to drop the
table and create the primary key in a
different way to drop table persons
I haven't grabbed it now let's drop this
will fish or database don't we drop okay
let's go ahead and create it again so
I'm going to create it in a different
way and I'm going to add something in
here so I'm going to create table
prisons and I'm going for the person ID
let's type end run person name which is
variable character as you created before
150 so I still didn't add my primary key
we have seen that we can add it in here
very simply and we can add it in a
different way we can come in here and
tell it that I'm going to add a
constraint primary key is some type of
constraint and we going to discuss
constraints next so constraint I'm gonna
give it a name
maybe primary key on the person ID this
is just a name and I'm going to specify
that this Chris trained is of type
primary key and I need to specify the
column so the column is going to be
person ID so this is another way to
create a primary key and in here I'm
going to do a trick in here I'm going to
make this field go to increment out like
this number to be incremented directly
entering it so I'm going to add this
keyword butwho increment as you can see
here turn it blue keyboard so this will
make this field go to increment by one
each time so I can come in here now and
grab this as you can see in here because
that I missed in here a comma so if I
add this color in here and I'm going to
run this now activities are the problem
so make sure that all the commands are
placed without a problem go ahead and
refresh it so here it here is my new
created column going to go to the edit
mode or the data and here I'm going to
having some data mcgann specific person
ID I'm going to choose the person name
maybe James then going to I don't know
one did you see that that the
personality was generated automatically
without me having this let's push again
maybe jacked I have something with the
J's here and add it as you can see the
two also added maybe use Jennifer and
here it is as you can see if I delete it
one record if I press right click delete
selected row and if I add it again what
do you think the person ID is going to
be three four
else it's going to be not three it's
going to be four so let's go ahead and
maybe my name and here it is because in
the background it already saved that
there is there was a three numbers tree
so it's keep incrementing with time
litter we can see how can we reset it
I'll get the last value okay so this is
how can you create primary keys using
this healer script the easy way of
course to created using the IDS you feel
so if I come in here until it to create
new table so I can come in here now and
add and you call them I'm gonna give it
a name maybe this is going to be an
employee table don't mean take in the
multi ID going to be use five and then
add another one the column maybe it's
going to be the employee for the first
name lyric first name is going to be a
variable character okay and another one
the last I'm going to keep it simple so
to make this a primary key simply just
right click in here create new index
primary now it's flagged on market as a
primary key as you can see in here and
you can come in here and give the table
a name so this table is going to be cold
please save it and if i refresh my human
resources database now i'm gonna see
that there is d please it will create it
as i go to edit mode we are already in
dated mode in here and the employee ID
is market ANSI primary key so that's it
about the primary is and see you in the
next lecture welcome back
he's lecture we're going to discuss
constraints constraints are used in
Moorea DB to limit the behavior of the
data entered into a table i can make for
example some fields are mandatory that i
have to enter them I can make some
fields for to increment I can make some
columns unique without making them
primary keys or I can
make them have a default value let's go
ahead and see how can we do this so in
here I'm going to drop the table persons
I'm going to create it again but first
let's go be current one so drop table
persons if you have it go ahead and drop
it if you don't have then ignore this
command in here okay so what I'm going
to do is to create it again create table
persons and I'm going to create the
first column person ID it's going to be
X type and primary key you want to be
you to increment so now this field is
the primary key which means that this is
going to be a unique and can contain
null values and is going to be Oh to
incremented by one each time I create
another column person name it's going to
be of type variable director and the
person named in a mandatory field so the
user has to enter it so I'm going to
make this using this keyword not long
now memory DB will it shake if this row
or this column is not entered it will
not allow you to save or insert in the
database I'm going to see this the
address for example the address is going
to be variable character but it's not
going to have any special constraint
about it I'm gonna leave it as it is so
user can enter it or can't it some time
so I'm going to use field maybe the
passport number the passport number is
going to be a variable character because
it contains letters and is going to be
unique because you best put number it's
only for you no one else can have your
passport number so to make this field
unique without making it
hurricane sandy we use the keyword
unique now it will make sure that only
one passport number is stored in your
whole table and the one else can use it
again I'm going to discus now let's go
ahead and create movies a salary here
it's going to be disabled maybe ten and
two and I'm gonna make the salary how
the default value may be if the user
didn't enter B value have a default I'm
gonna set the number to maybe 4,000 okay
so I've created the person's table with
a little bit different constraints in
here we had a be not null to the person
name they unique to the passport number
and a default value of 4,000 to the
salary let's go ahead and execute this
and a fresh and open our person's table
in here if you take a look now the
YouTube or the allowed null in here is
checked
this is allowed now this also and this
but it's not the person name because I
told it in the query when we were
creating the table that this cannot
contain love so I can go ahead and edit
them in here without the problem okay so
let's go ahead and try it so I'm going
to add a record in here maybe person ID
what I'm gonna leave it actually it's
going to increment so I'm going to have
a person name don't be the person name
is going to be Charla's and the address
I'm going to leave it like this and the
password number maybe a 1 3 4 this is
just course he doesn't eat and as you
can see I didn't enter this Hillary and
it's already there I can go ahead and
change it or I can leave it okay that's
what I need to specify for the first
time so I'm going nuts user to choose
resembles to will so it's going to
increment
one each time after the twelve in here
okay so go ahead sat on the wall I'm
going to add a person ID person name is
going to be Emma
let me there is not to enter the
personally I'm going to choose number
maybe seven eight nine and I'm going to
change the salary maybe five thousand
let's try this as you can seen here the
field person name doesn't have a default
value okay this means that there is no
default value on I didn't give it a
value so it's empty and this view cannot
be empty I'm going to add a name here as
you can see now the person ID
incremented by one which is now 13 let's
go ahead and add another one we're going
to add this maybe 15 I'm going to skip
one I'm going to add maybe my name make
the address wanted free Street and I'm
going to add the same password number as
Charlie so I'm going to go for a 1 2 3 4
now let's see what user base is going to
tell us as you can see dublicate entry a
1 2 3 4 the data that I entered is
already existed so it cannot be added
again by SI phan seizure let's go ahead
and change it maybe make it 1 and it's
saved as you can see and if I added
number it's keep adding or incrementing
after the last number that the add which
is 15 so now it's going to be 16 this is
going to be jacked I'll leave everything
else okay now it's steamed and as you
can see in here the address and the
passport number accepted they note
because I didn't tell it that B must be
entered and the salary is a default
value when come back everyone in the
station going to discuss for in case but
first let's define what is a foreign key
foreign key is one or more columns in a
table that you first in the primary key
in another table for
is used to link two tables together so
its main purpose is to do linking or
design a relation between tables as we
going to see so let's go ahead and see
how can we create foreign keys and
designed relations in Moorea DP we're
going to see it using the SQL script
first and using the idea secure so let's
go ahead now and create two table I'm
going to create a table 140 countries
I'm going to store the countries in it
and one for the cities and there is a
relation between the countries and the
cities each city should belong to one
country so we're going to make a
relation between the cities and the car
so let's first create the countries
table so I'm going to create table
countries I'm going to create maybe
primary key is going to be the country
ID it's going to be an ID for the
country it will act as the primary key
primary key you can go ahead and make it
put in Quentin you want and don't forget
the type of it that's going to be
entered and maybe the country name it's
going to be variable corrector and maybe
it's 150 and it's not long must be
provided I live in the country
abbreviation like for example x is use a
UK de etc it's going to be variable
character maybe maybe farce is enough I
guess and it can be known nothing
special about this and we can go ahead
and even add the capital of each country
it's going to be real character maybe
100 okay now we're done with the
countries table if we run this you
should have a new table called punches
it's refresh our database and here it is
here is the table countries and the
country ID is a primary key it's good to
go ahead and continue so right now we
didn't create any foreign keys in this
table the stick is that we're going to
create we're going to create
Rinke and make a relation between the
countries and the cities so create table
cities city ID probably when you're
creating something you will have a ID
for each row to identify this row it
will act as the primary key so I'm going
to use e see the ID to know to be an
entity going to be the primary heat some
special cases we will need to have two
colons as the primary key as we going to
see city name also variable character
maybe 150 again not low right now I
didn't make the relationship between the
countries and the city so I'm going to
do it how do I do this okay first we
tell that we're going to create a
foreign key like this and it's going to
be on the country ID but wait a minute I
don't have a country ID in this table so
you need to create a country ID in this
table in here and just leave it as it
don't mark it with anything okay
so right now I have three : the city ID
which belongs to this city and the city
name belongs to the city
containing the name of the city and the
country our deeds come to hold for
example 1 2 or 3 or 10 1100 or any other
number and this number will link to this
table to get the data related to this
number how are we going to see so here I
specified that I'm going to create a
foreign key on this column in this table
but I need to tell it where it's going
to link so I'm going to use this new
keyboard references and I'm going to
tell it that it's going to take you to
the countries table this is the table in
here and I'm going to add the column in
this table so again what did I do
I added the country ID in here which is
going to
all the numbers it's going to link me to
this table to this specific row in here
are we going to see this and detailed
how to link it and how to extract this
data from here and then we added the
foreign key it's going to be the country
IDs mean this column in here is going to
reference to this table the countries to
this column and this table okay I hope
it's clear let's go ahead and try to
execute this run selection and we should
have cities here it is go ahead to edit
mode as you can see I have a special
field in here as you can see there is
some kind if you can see this there is a
link between two tables in here if I go
to this tab soaring Keys tab in here I
can see that there is a foreign key
created and it's going to be linked it
the coulomb ID in my table it's going to
the table reference table countries to
the foreign column which is the country
ID this is exactly the information that
we gave in here in the query foreign key
country ID reference to the countries to
the country ID this is it the same only
that we are using here to Joey
o di da secure okay right now I'm going
to create a new table using behind the
SQL and I'm going to connect it to the
employees table in here this table is
going to be called department it's going
to contain the departments in my Human
Resources database so let's go ahead and
create this new table to right click
create new table I'm gonna name it in
the portland's I'm going to add a new
column department ID it's going to be
under force go ahead and mark this as
primary key create new index primary add
apartment name variable character I'm
just go ahead and save this from here
okay it's created
we refresh our database we can see that
we have a new created table departments
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
link the department ID to the employees
ID in here using the same Cola but I
don't have a department ID on this
column if you remember so I'm going to
add the department ID in them please :
here go ahead and click Add
it added it a number Street you can go
ahead and leave it or move it down I'd
like to move it down moved anywhere you
like just to look nice things Department
ID and this time is going to be and
there it is okay let's go to the foreign
keys tab can't add you Frankie I'm going
to name it maybe the Portland the
Portland ID please just go ahead and
choose anything that you like colons is
going to be the department ID it's going
to be reference it to the table this is
the table that I'm going to link to
which is the department's I'm going to
link to the department ID column in the
departments table to go ahead and click
this let's go ahead and click Save and
it's saved successfully and as you can
see in here there is some link I can
create it in the department ID if you
have problem creating this foreign key
or primary keys probably you will have
some day ten years you go ahead and
clear your data if you're going to do
some linking and you're facing some
problems okay so that's it about foreign
keys and how to design relations we're
going to see this frequently so hope
it's easy see you in the next welcome
back in this lecture we're going to see
something really interesting we're going
to see how to import data into our
database to import data in R ad B we
need to have CSV files CSV files can be
created using excel sheet you can go
ahead and create these before using X
so you can just open an excel at some
data you have some data and just save as
CSV so right now I'm going to upload a
couple of tables in you're going to
upload the country's departments and
jobs I'm avoiding the cities and
employees because if you notice that
cities have a relation with the country
so there has to be some data for the
countries I cannot go ahead and upload
the cities first because it's going to
look for the country ID and it will not
find it the same for the employees it's
going to look for the country ID and the
department and if there is no data in
these two tables I might have a problem
so I'm going to upload the first tables
country's jumps and Portland's so let's
start and adding some data but first I
needed to go ahead and clear any data
that you might have can go ahead and
right-click on the tables empty table or
simply go to any data that you have like
this for example just select what you
want to delete right click and delete
select it we're going to see how to
delete data using SQL script later so
right now I'm going to choose tools
import CSV file and from here I'm going
to export the first one I'm going to be
the countries and the user is a couple
of information that I would like to
avoid Swiss you ignore the first
probably in most of these fee files all
the exempt ions the first line or the
first row is going to be the header so
if that's not the case make it zero if
you have the header and number one or
the first line go ahead and make it one
so that can ignore the first column okay
here you have option you can insert you
can insert ignore which is going to do
duplicates or you can replace which is
going to replace if there is a key if
there is for example country number one
in your table ready and you're uploading
an excel file or CSV file that have
number one it's going to replace it so
I'm going to choose replace for now and
in here I'm choosing combat so please
make sure that you have a comma fields
terminated by comma
okay honey
the destination I'm going to choose of
course the human resources that the base
go ahead and choose the name of the
database that you have name it I hope
that you named it like me human
resources so that's easier and in here
I'm going to choose the table that I'm
going to upload to in this case I'm
going to choose countries okay here the
field that I'm going to copy or upload
go ahead and import and it didn't say
anything but it uploaded it if I go to
the countries right now as you can see
now I have a couple of countries you can
go ahead and add more if you'd like but
this is what I have right now let's go
ahead and try another one tools the
quotes is V let's change the file I'm
going to choose maybe dumps go ahead and
more resources selected choose jobs
report let's go ahead and check it two
jobs and here we have the jobs we have
them my name um salary the maximum
salary and the minimum experience years
really interesting let's do the last one
Ford says V let's choose the
department's and change the table to
departments which is already selected
let's check the department and here is
our departments so that's how you can
upload data into database using the
heidi is um very easy I think and very
powerful see you can see mix Lichter so
as your database is growing you might
have a problem instead of mining which
relation is going between two tables so
we can use a concept called entity
relationship diagram
oh the erd to the Des Moines this
relationships between different tables
as our database is growing
what is entity relationship diagram it's
a visual form of relational databases
it shows entities all the tables in a
database and the relationships between
the tables within this database it's
essential to have erd as it shows three
basic elements the tables two attributes
all the columns
the different relationships between them
we cannot do this using the Heine SQL
the switcher is not available right now
have I told you there is different
graphical user interface that we can use
for a DB first one that they recommend
in the website at the debase workbench
and here the link in the official Maria
DB website and who the link for the
database workbench and there is the
dbForge studio from Murray ATP and the
Navi cat and the DB schema there is
other alternative that we can use but
all of these alternatives are not
straight the obtained GUI that we can
use the one that we're going to try
right now at the DB schema so I'm going
to install it right now I'm trying to
show you some of the basics to use a DP
schema to manage them ready B database
okay here is the URL that we're going to
use www.dsc.uci.edu go ahead and click
on the green button if you'd like and it
will do load the DB schema for the
version of Windows you're using I'm
using e 64-bit right now so I'm going to
install this I have it already installed
but I'm going to install it again with
you okay
yes I would like to update probably will
not have this one aren't you the SQL
query hardware we're not going to use
this GUI or the DB schema to open all
the is you'll find just only this the DB
schema
project file so first next it's going to
install that's pretty straightforward
the there is no a lot of steps in here
just a simple installation after the
installation is done we're going to see
how can we connect this DP schema to an
RIA db2 can get all the information
remember that we have the resources with
some tables cities
countries and please answer okay great
run the DB schema here it is okay as you
can see in here that this is a trial and
will expire in 15 days if you'd like to
buy it you can go ahead and pipe as you
can see here I have a diagram for a
little baby that I have already in my
system as you can see he read the main
table the phones yeah there is the film
ID the title of the film the description
the release year and there is a
different relation it's really a
beautiful leg rhyme in here see the
relations where is going to one the type
of relation the Coulomb really beautiful
so how can I do this diagram to our
Human Resources database okay let's go
ahead and see how can we create this
beautiful diagram so he moves it to the
base it's not going to be a lot of table
to have our table donut at much do fewer
than this so I'm going to choose project
new project I'm gonna name it
Human Resources handful here the our
DBMS you can go ahead and choose any
database there is a lot of databases in
here as you can see folks prefer derby
db2 there is a skill the minus ik l can
Sandra what have databases that we can
use we're going to choose Maria Debbie
where are you Maria as you can see the
interface is a changing based on the
type of the database going to go for
Maria de P and in here you can find all
the default settings the localhost I
have here the IB if you have a different
IP for your database or it is on the
cloud open another server you can go
ahead and add the host name or the IP
address and this is the port I have the
default port in here she's 306 and here
is the root and the password you can go
ahead and type it and as you can see now
I have access to the databases I have
the information schema and the human
resources or I can even come in here and
create you just press connect and
it shows me that there is the human
resources and with tables okay that's
what I'm going to work with press okay
and here it is I have my my grams this
is just a quick tour in here you can go
ahead and use it to see what's doing
what if you'd like but we're going to
see this so here is my high tables that
we've created if you remember we have
taken please and here is the columns
holding please the countries and here is
the relation between the countries as
you can see and then please and the
relation between the countries and the
cities and the cities and the experience
previous experience and the importance
and the empty really amazing chose me
what is going where without me taking a
look at foreign keys or anything this is
just a beautiful diagram this is the erd
diagram or the entity relationship
diagram as you can see me we missed one
link we actually didn't miss it but we
can see that maybe you missed some
relation that you need to add retable
that is not connecting to any table this
help you really view the relationship
between new tables it's not only just
about views we can go ahead and for
example I think I'm Annie and right
click and there is a plenty of options
in here that we can do for example I can
change it to color this is a special
table for example the jobs I can go
ahead and make it crab just means that
there is some kind of a problem with
this table in here or I can come in here
and set a call-out I can say that there
is no relation for this table at the
moment okay now I can see that there is
this command in here showing me on my
colleague that there is information for
this table at the moment I can go ahead
in here and mark this and the main table
for example go ahead and make call out
main table or I can change the color
also maybe green this now you can change
the the green in here so it's
really nice and if I need the schema
divvy you can go ahead play with it next
we're going to see how to create tables
using the DB schema see you in the next
lecture